Okay, the tape is going.
First all I wanted to know was how you first got involved with the fantasy field.
Did you read it as a girl and adolescent and grew up with it or how did you get involved
with it?
Well, not really.
I started reading it in my early 20s.
I had read science fiction when I was younger.
But I discovered fantasy when I was about 23 or 24.
I connected with it more strongly than I had with science fiction.
I've been interested in fantasy almost exclusively since as far as genera fiction is concerned.
I don't read any science fiction anymore.
Okay, in other words, you just didn't grow up reading the pulp, some magazines then?
No, I never liked the pulp particularly.
I liked fairy tales when I was quite little.
Somehow I never thought of them as being suitable for me as a teenage reader or as an adult reader.
It took me a long time to connect and see that fantasy was really suited for adults as well.
I think a lot of people feel that way about fantasy.
They start reading science fiction, perhaps partly because it seems more adult than fantasy.
I don't think that's at all true.
Fantasy is a stronger symbolic meaning where science fiction in a lot of ways is a lot more simplistic.
It's worldviews, feeling around for symbols that don't have an ancient heritage or an ancient long existence in our subconscious, in our culture.
Okay, what about the writing part of it? How did you get involved in that?
Well, I started writing science fiction as well when I was about 13.
I got my first little rejection letter, a pleasant little letter from John Campbell telling me I misspelled one of the words in my title with a one word title.
I was so embarrassed that I never submitted anything else.
Again, it was many years before I ceased to write science fiction stories for the writing of fantasy instead.
Although I'd also written horror stories simultaneously and some of those actually have turned out to be publishable.
One that I wrote when I was a teenager.
The science fiction called garbage that I wrote when I was a teenager.
My major writing is, I think, all been fantasy.
Yeah, I have to confess that I haven't been able to find much background on your, except for the works you published on much else.
Have you published any science fiction at all?
No, everything I've published has been fantasy and with a good deal of horror stories thrown in, it could be considered dark fantasy.
Now, you have some involvement with a fanzine, don't you?
No, I don't. I used to publish a fanzine about feminist fantasy and science fiction.
But I haven't done that for a long time. There's been no time for things like that.
And I did a little newsletter about women warriors to this kind of an interest of mine, but I haven't had time to do that lately either.
Because I have to make a living from my writing.
What? Okay, what was that reference I saw? I think it was in Amazon's 2 to fantasy and terror.
Oh, that was something. That's probably how I entered the professional field, although that wasn't a professional magazine.
I think it was a nice magazine. It was not... I started publishing it, not really knowing what fandom was.
I was involved with literary magazines and university, little magazine.
And I thought it would be real interesting to do something like that. That was all fantasy stories and horror stories.
I found some people that wrote through sorts of things and I started doing this magazine.
And like after I got one issue out, I started getting magazines just like it from hundred other editors.
I was really surprised to find out it wasn't her original idea at all that they were usually called fancy.
I did that until about 1972 to 1975. I did seven issues.
And before I quit doing it, I think it had developed into a rather pleasant magazine as professional as you can be without having any real distribution or backing.
But I got tired of doing it.
Okay, what about another one I saw a reference to? I'm not sure what this is. Wind Haven.
That was the feminist fantasy and science fiction magazine that I started doing after I got tired of doing fantasy and terror.
I guess I was just really interested in small press projects.
I'm not quite sure why, but I still write for some small presses.
I like the energy that small press publishers have.
But of course it doesn't, it can't break even on it. You can't make money on it.
It usually costs more money.
You can only do it for as long as you feel this personal involvement.
And after a while you just get overwhelmed and tired and you stop doing it.
But that did give me some background for when I contracted my first professional anthropology.
The publisher was already aware of who I was and what I was capable of doing, which was a surprise to me because I'd never sent some copies of my magazine.
He knew all about them and thought they were good magazines.
So I gave me a professional contract.
My first break into actually making a living as a writer and editor.
And that's what you're doing now? You can make your living at it?
Yep. One of the small percentage doesn't have to do anything else.
Okay, that must be great. Listen, let me go on for just a little bit to some...
Well, right before I get to some of your work, reading the little head pieces you had in Amazons too, to some of those stories.
There was one that intrigued me. You said that many modern authors are weak and lazy in their research for heroic fantasy.
I got the impression you were implying that a heroic fantasy should be somehow based upon a, I don't know, familiar environment.
Say an ancient Anglo-Saxon made evil kind of background. Is that what you meant?
No, that's really not what I meant at all.
I think most heroic fantasy is based on something really familiar and really Anglo-Saxon and European.
But they don't even... The writers of this sort of fiction don't even research that.
They just take a very superficial meaning from what we all have in our consciousness about what it must have been like.
And they try to invent from there. And what they end up inventing is something that is tremendously superficial.
Almost comic book-like rather than literary. Whereas if they were to do a lot of reading in historical writing,
they would find out that the ancient world was a lot more complex and a lot more interesting than their very fissile fantasies about some Anglo-Europe that they never researched.
I kind of would like to see more fantasy stories that weren't Anglo at all.
And much of my major work is set in a vaguely Asian world.
But it wouldn't even have to be that. Something that was truly complex and different from our own world would be very interesting.
But it usually, no matter how people try, they come up with things that sound Anglo-Europe.
And I think they're essential laziness. They write fantasies because they think they can make everything up without having to read anything else first.
So they end up writing silly things.
You wouldn't be saying now that it wouldn't be possible to write heroic fantasy which has no kind of roots whatsoever.
I think it would be very possible. I can't think of an example or it's been done.
Okay. I think I'm saying this right now. Tomoe goes in.
That's right.
Okay. I have to confess I know nothing about Japanese history or legend, but I assume that it is based on actual history and legend. Would that be correct?
That's pretty correct. The world that Tomoe lives in is called Nipon.
And it's very strongly based on Japanese myth and Japanese history.
But if anybody reads it thinking they'll learn a lot about Japanese myth and history, they'll be wrong.
Because it's a Nipon. It's its own world.
And a lot of that stuff is not very loosely based. Some of it is very rigidly based.
It's a heavy mixture of invention and actual belief.
Well, for instance, when I finished the two books that you've written so far, I was kind of proud of myself and then I said,
gosh, I know something about Japanese legend and history now. I said, if that's what Samurais are like, I like them.
For instance, would my impression of the Samurais be wrong? Is that pretty close to what they were?
Well, I think there is the general feel of the world created in those two books.
It is as near as I can figure out as an amateur historian reads about it incessantly,
that that is pretty much what their behavior patterns were and their thinking patterns and their society in general.
Samurai were like that, sure.
But what I was thinking in terms, I have come across some people who believe that they now know all about Japanese mythology
because of the way it was portrayed in that book.
But I changed some things to suit the world that I was creating.
Anybody that wants to know about Japanese history really should read history books
and people that want to be entertained by fantasy based on that should read my books.
A few other books like that.
Okay, what about some of those monsters like the Tengu or the Bakumonos or whatever they would call them?
Is there any basis for those?
The Tengu and the Bakumonos and also the Kappa, the Empire, those are all real.
They are taken from mythology, some of the most off the wall aspects of them.
Like just a second, somebody at the door.
Okay.
Go away.
That's no trouble.
Okay, I sent them away.
Okay, if you're sure it's okay.
Again, if you weren't expecting me, I feel kind of bad about this.
I didn't want to interrupt you.
I told them to drop by in half an hour.
Okay.
Okay, anyway, I forget what I was saying.
You were just finishing up the answer about the Bakumonos and the Tengu.
They were based.
They're definitely based.
I was thinking of the Kappa, which people find difficult to believe.
I wasn't putting them on.
Like a blood-sucking animal that can be placated with pickles and cucumbers.
They think that's a joke, but that's something that Japanese really used to believe.
I suppose in some outlying areas, they still believe it.
So, both particular types of creatures are real.
There are some other creatures in that series that aren't real.
Okay, did you have any particular impetus or inspiration behind those volumes?
Behind which?
Those volumes, the two and the Tomoi Gozen series.
Hard to say.
I suppose part of it was just my feeling that most of the heroic fantasy written had been pretty similar,
no matter how Barry Biotis tried to be.
They were writing the same thing, which were superficially Anglo-European,
either Viking or Camelot or something like that.
Really predictable or Conan.
So, I wanted to do something different.
I'm not quite sure why I chose it to be something based loosely on Japanese ancient history and myth.
My stepmother is from Thailand, so I've always had Asian friends and relatives, but they were Japanese.
The only thing I can figure that with my major impetus for really liking the Japanese legends and history would be cinema.
I have really been very fond of samurai films, essentially.
I started starting out like most people with Seven Samurai and other films by Akira Kurosawa.
Being lucky to live in an area that has a very large Asian population,
there are two Japanese cinemas and two Chinese cinemas and two more Chinese cinemas opening soon.
I just have a great access to Asian films, more so than most people do around the United States.
I go to them every weekend, essentially. Always watching them, especially Japanese films.
I lived in San Francisco five years and of course they have a large Chinese community,
and I enjoyed going down there and involving myself in that culture as much as I could.
Listen, about Tomoi, you may not want to answer this because it might get into your third volume,
but to me she was at least a searcher. Even though she achieves almost everything she sets out to achieve,
she's dissatisfied, she keeps looking, she's sort of a maverick, and even marriage and so forth wasn't satisfying to her.
Why is she that way? Are you leading her up towards something?
Well, I don't know if she's exactly a searcher, not someone on any sort of quest.
She's someone that changes though in the course of the three books, the third and the fourth, which isn't finished yet.
In the first book I try to present her as somewhat naive. She's very young and she does essentially what her society expects of her.
Until the very end when she feels somewhat sad that she's actually succeeded,
she succeeded in doing everything the culture expects and has made her particularly happy.
So in the second book she's questioning everything that in the first book she took for granted,
and yet still goes along with it. She continues to do everything the society expects of her.
She's obedient to her Lord with her husband and does everything she can to help him as she's supposed to,
and everything comes to know good end at all.
So in the third book she is definitely outside the society that she was a part of previously.
She's not actively rebellion against it, but no longer participating in it.
She becomes essentially a wandering nun, and history allows me to continue to have her be a swordswoman.
Because there were martial nuns that wandered about Japan, so she can still be an adventurer, a fighter.
She's no longer fighting for the system that in the first book everything was aimed at sporting the system,
and in the third book everything is outside that system.
She never becomes a total rebel though, she never actively seeks to destroy the system.
Okay, I'm an English teacher and I can't help seeing symbolism.
In the first book she starts off as a swordswoman, as a warrior, she starts off with the double swords,
the equal swords, and then changes to the single one.
Did you mean something that she was a divided person, she was incomplete when she had the double swords,
and she had to go to a unified method?
Well, some of that is maybe subconscious to me only, I'm not sure.
I was thinking of, when I did that I was thinking in terms of some martial philosophy that is perhaps mine,
as a martial artist personally.
It's hard to put a handle on that.
I think these books are full of symbolism, some of it conscious and some of it not.
I'm not quite sure that that was a really important element in that symbolism, I'm not sure.
Okay, in the second volume, I wondered why you were so cruel to Azo Hono-O
when you had Tamoi just cut off her arm.
I thought it would have been a lot more satisfactory at least to maybe end her life.
Why cut off an arm of a warrior like that and let her live?
I had hoped it was implied that even with one arm Azo Hono-O might become a very successful woman warrior herself.
Obviously Azo didn't believe that that would happen to her and she felt it was cruel to be left alive.
But it was my intention to imply that she was wrong about that, that she could still become a successful person,
although she had lost that duel and lost one arm.
And that story is actually followed up.
There's an anthology edited by Susan Schwartz called Hikates Caldron.
And I have a short story in there called the Harmonious Battle and it tells what happened to Azo Hono-O after she lost her arm.
And she becomes an extremely successful in a way, kind of ironic way.
So it's not a tragedy that she survived.
Okay, good.
When do you think that... did you say you're writing on the third volume now and if so when would it be out?
It's very difficult to say when it will be out.
Since I haven't finished it, the publisher can't really schedule it for publication until I give the publisher an idea when I'll be finished with it.
It's taking me a lot longer than I expected to write this one.
The second one I wrote relatively, with relatively no problem.
This one for whatever reason is just taking me a lot longer to do.
Okay, why do... why does the subject of... this is probably an awfully general question.
But why does the subject of women as warriors appeal to you so much?
You know, maybe partly because I study the martial arts myself personally and maybe partly because I've in the past been heavily involved with feminism.
Not so much involved with the doubt because I'm too involved with my own writing.
But I think from my first three novels, the two novels about Timoy and a third novel called Swordswoman published by Tor, everybody's got the impression that I only write about swordswoman
when in fact I've just struck on some commercial success with my material about swordswoman.
And my short stories cover a much wider range of material.
And I think my novels in the future will also.
But I suppose I've just been very, very much interested in heroic fantasy and not so much interested in writing about men as about women right now.
Although I hope I'm very fair in my characterization of men and have some interesting male characters in all my work.
Oh yeah, I would agree with that.
As long as you mentioned swordswoman, let me quickly get onto that for a minute.
In a sense, I guess that's the alternate worlds again.
In this case, you have one heroic world and then one civilized, meaning the earth.
Do you have any particular preference when you set up an extreme dichotomy like that?
I'm not quite sure I understand.
Well, do you prefer the heroic world that Erin goes to or the civilized one that she ends up on earth?
Difficult to say.
I personally would not have wanted to live in the world where Erin went.
But for her personally, it's obviously the world where she should have been allowed to stay.
I'm almost required to write another book about her that puts her back there permanently.
I think it's clear from the context of the story that Ends World is the place where she belongs.
That's not a place where I belong. I wouldn't get along there at all.
I thought it was rather an ugly world.
I think our world is perhaps just as ugly.
And perhaps Ends World is really just in many ways symbolic of our own world.
That's why it's ugly and that's why this one's ugly.
I couldn't make a choice between the two worlds.
I don't think Ends World really existed.
I would probably decide to stay in our own.
I'm more familiar with it.
They're both cruel worlds.
Okay, was there a particular impetus behind that book?
Or did you just come upon an idea that seemed interesting to you?
There are many impetuses behind that book.
It's a type of book that is essentially...
Gosh, the basic premise can be found in some of Edgar Rice's Boroughs,
Swordsman of Mars type novels where some man averse is transposed to
this world of adventure and gets along fine and dandy,
saves princesses with green eyes and things like that.
I just thought it was all such a lot of nonsense and really childish.
And I tried to write what would really happen to someone.
If that particular fantasy came true for them,
if they liked this kind of literature,
wished that thing would happen to them,
and it does happen to them.
And they go there and essentially it's just not consistent success at all.
She ends up living like a troll under a bridge,
a bum unable to feed herself or take care of herself.
She just can't cope with this change at all.
It's very slow how she ends up adapting to that world
and learning to love that world.
That was probably my main...
The main thing I wanted to do was to show the absurdity of fantasy
as it usually goes and how it might go instead,
if it was done more logically.
Okay, I did enjoy that novel very much.
There are a lot of things I could ask about it,
but I want to make sure we have time to cover some more things.
So I want to move on for just a few minutes to Amazon's, the Amazon's books.
The first one, Amazon's.
What was the story behind your working on that
and how you became interested in doing that volume and how it was set up?
That, of course, was my first professional work
when I ceased to be an amateur press person.
I'd actually started that project as an amateur press project.
I was going to do an anthology and publish it myself,
of stories about women warriors.
I wrote around to some people, some famous people,
some not so famous people, and asked them if they'd write stories.
They wrote great stories.
They were just excited by the idea.
Up to this point, you wrote fantasy stories.
This is 1978, when I first started doing the project.
There were very, very few you wrote fantasy stories with women as protagonists.
Everybody thought it was just great and wonderful.
I was shocked by the response.
So I contacted a publisher just on the off chance
that they might think it was a wonderful idea too, and they did.
It turned out to be a professional anthology rather than a small press anthology.
Then it went on to win the World Fantasy Award.
I guess that's when I started to be able to make my living as an editor and a writer.
Everybody started paying attention to my work.
I guess the response of readers must have been pretty good to that work too, right?
I kind of cheated.
I put my address on the last page of the book.
That caused me to get hundreds and hundreds of letters for while I was getting 20 letters a day.
Mostly from women, but also from a lot of guys who were just really tickled to read all these stories.
That was a wide range of people.
There were super right wing people, or super left wing people.
Just people that just liked stories.
Everybody didn't matter what their personal politics or persuasion.
They just really liked those stories.
I suppose that means it's fairly successful.
Although sometimes I wonder if being that A political is a good thing.
There were a few people that hated it because they could tell I was feminist,
and they thought that destroyed the worth of the apology for me to have a feminist perspective personally.
But mostly everybody liked it.
I certainly did.
I've never gotten more letters for anything else I've ever done.
And of course that kind of response must have led into the Amazon's too then.
Yes.
Many of the letters weren't sent to my address.
They were sent to the publisher who forwarded them to me.
So the publisher also got to see how many people were interested.
But really the publisher didn't decide that there could be a second volume until it won the World Fantasy Award.
And then he instantly was interested in a second volume.
Gosh, I guess I didn't realize that words did so that much for a book.
I thought if a book is good it would sell without an award on it.
Well, it's very difficult with the anthology especially because they never sell as well as novels.
The best selling anthology doesn't sell nearly as well as a pretty good selling novel.
So a publisher, some publishers therefore won't publish anthologies.
There are many publishers that won't publish anthologies because they know a novel will do better.
Others feel a commitment to the short story and to the anthology.
And if they make all their money back a little bit of profit they have to be satisfied.
Then they're not going to have any meaningful profits from anthology.
They tend to make their decisions on unrelated reasons not so related to the commercial aspect.
The commercial aspect is their first consideration.
If an anthology loses money there certainly won't be a second one like it.
If it makes little money then they have to have some additional reason for doing a second one like it.
In this case it wasn't an award.
Okay, I'd like to move on to one more area to make sure we have time to cover this.
I teach a science fiction fantasy course here at Obesa College.
It's going to be total fantasy next semester and we're going to read a lot of heroic fantasy.
I'm going to have the students read quite a bit of it.
I'm probably going to use your Tamoy Gozen novel, the first one.
I kind of like to get some of your ideas just about fantasy in general.
I want to ask you why do people read heroic fantasy and why has it been so popular recently?
Well, I don't think you can generalize why people like it.
I think for some people it has a very deep symbolic meaning in their personal daily lives.
Obviously nobody is really a big, tough swords master who can win their way through any problem.
But I think that there is a relationship between these fantasies and the real world that's not just escapists
in that our daily lives are pretty dangerous and we somehow manage to survive and go to the end of our lives anyway.
There is a kind of, I suppose, burlesque and extreme, but the heroic fantasy world is very much like our own world
and the dangers we manage to survive day after day.
Also, the amount of death and the blood gore that exists in these kinds of novels is to many people exploitative
and grotesque. They don't like it. They don't know why so many other people do like it.
And they think very badly of that form of literature because it is so bloody.
But to me, I think there is definitely that exploit to that aspect of it.
But I think it's also, again, symbolic of the transience of our own life.
At any moment you could get smashed to smithereens in a car crash.
Life can just end suddenly. Even if you live a long life, I mean, 80 years or 60 years, this is not a long time.
And the sudden death and the danger that these worlds represent is very much like our own world.
They are very honest in a way.
So there are people at both extremes. There are people who like it just because it's bloody and gory and ugly.
And they really like that. They really like death and slaughter and all that grotesque stuff.
There are other people that approach it from a feeling that it is symbolic of the transience of our own life.
I've talked to some science fiction authors recently. I guess the last one was Charles Sheffield.
He was talking about fantasy. And he said he thought that one of the reasons it's so popular right now is that we're having sort of hard times around the world,
not just the United States. You have the economy, the wars and so forth. And the people just want to escape.
And maybe he thought that might have been one reason it's so popular.
Yeah, well, Sheffield, of course, is a science fiction writer. And science fiction writers in general don't like fantasy in general.
And they dislike especially that it's selling very well right now.
So I mean, it would be like, that would be like me saying the reason science fiction is popular is because people don't like people anymore.
They only like machines. They only like computers and war games and other sorts of things that they can plug into.
And I think that's very biased to me to say that. People like science fiction like it because they do.
And to me, science fiction is entirely escapist and ridiculous. And fantasy is a lot of fun.
To Sheffield, it's the other way around. I don't think that any particular form of literature, when I think of it logically,
fantasy is not more escapist than something else. Science fiction is not more escapist than something else.
Some people must read it so that they can forget that the world exists.
But I think most people when they read it, they're seeing things and learning things about the world that does exist.
Okay, very good. Do you think that either form fantasy or science fiction is easier to write?
No, I don't think either one is easier to write. I think the majority of science fiction is not very good and was easy to write.
And the majority of fantasy is not very good and was easy to write. But anything that's done well, I don't think it ever comes really quite as easily.
Some people may think it's very difficult to write a good story because it's too much of your personal self that goes into it,
too much personal soul searching and too much technique and just sweaty work.
Yeah, I imagine it takes quite a long time to write a novel, especially like the Tomoy Gozane ones.
You mentioned this just a minute ago. You might answer it just quickly again for me.
You made a statement in the Amazons too that good fantasy, I think something of this effect, that there was an element of grimness about it should be grim.
Does that relate to your previous answer that it tells us something about the real world?
Gosh, I guess I don't really believe that fantasy needs to be grim.
I think the stuff that I've read that strikes me as the most intensely rewarding and the most beautiful is at once ironically humorous and very dark nature.
And I think most of the classic epic poems and things, the moments in them when you're really overwhelmed, that's when everything is almost at the same time amusing and incredibly sad.
And that's my personal feeling that the best fantasy has an element of grimness to it, an element of ironic evil.
But I'm sure there's some light little fairy stories that have nothing but sweetness to them that are also good literature.
You said you started out with fairy tales years ago. I guess you would maintain there's an obvious relationship between fantasy and fairy folk tales or folklore, isn't there?
In most cases, I think that one is the direct outgrowth of the other.
But heroic fantasy probably has its most obvious roots in ancient epics from Gilgamesh or Jason and the Argonauts, anything like that.
It's probably its most obvious roots, but in the nature of storytelling it in prose form. It's more related to fairy tales.
If you had to recommend some fantasy to somebody who'd never read it, or let me do it this way, what are your personal favorites in the field of fantasy?
Do you have any books that you especially think are extremely good?
It's always hard to say that, of course. I'm not really well read in the field, I must say, first because I spend most of my reading time reading nonfiction.
But of what I have read, there are some things that I think are tremendous that are new.
One of the most tremendous books that I've seen recently is a book called Death's Master by Tannin Lee.
I just think that's an awfully good book. It's almost too good to be written in the current decade.
I think the work of Phyllis Ann Carr, who's another writer, is fairly good.
Perhaps I think that only because it's fairly similar to my own.
I, of course, think that what I do is fairly good. I can't really think of anything else I would overtly recommend.
Usually when people ask me what they should read, if they've never read any fantasy, I usually tell them to read history books instead.
There's just a lot more happening in a history book. There's a lot more interesting characters in the entries, and you'd find that even the best fantasy is a lot more interesting than the other.
So you have to like fantasy to read it rather than read it because it's going to be inherently good.
There are very few things that are inherently good.
Do you think there have been any movies that have done a decent job with fantasy?
Well, I am obviously a cinema fan. I write criticism of films for publication.
I think there are some films that I've enjoyed an awful lot. I don't think there are any good ones if you were going to base them on the same level that you would base a work of literature.
Most recently, there is a really badly acted movie. It's so badly acted. It's called Beastmaster.
It's just really badly acted, and yet it's the first one I felt like almost captured the spirit of heroic fantasy in that it was not fatal, masochistic, and it was not grotesque.
It was very adventurous. It was a very pleasant movie. I enjoyed it.
It certainly is no classic. Most of the stuff that's been done recently, like Conan the Barbarian, is just awful. It's spiritually awful. It's bad as cinema. It's bad as heroic fantasy. It's just bad.
It represents what is the worst and least appealing about the heroic fantasy genre. I'm really sad to see that being picked out from the genre and being fed to the masses as what heroic fantasy is about.
Did you see Dragon Slayer?
Yes, I did. I didn't think much of it in the movie. It had a lot higher technical value than most of the other heroic fantasy films. It was a well-made film visually. It didn't look like a bunch of amateurs threw it together.
I think it was very effective. It was too full of cliche.
You mentioned this earlier in some of your answers, but could you summarize it for me? The kind of work you have planned for your future, like what you're writing now, what kind of plans you might have for things that you're going to publish?
Well, of course I have to finish off the saga the more I go then. But when I'm finished with that book, I'm also working on a book that I hope to finish almost simultaneously that remains to be seen, which is set in Southeast Asia, kind of set in a mythological Cambodia or Compecia, whatever it's called now.
It's essentially an ancient love story full of magic, has very little in the way of violence. Quite the opposite about people who come to expect me to write. It's hard to say what all right after that. There's always more things in mind than anybody can conceivably do in a lifetime.
What about another anthology?
It's a wider range of heroic fantasy. Some very experimental material in there, which heroic fantasy has not been well known for experimental literature, but I think this time there will be some of that.
And if it's a successful anthology, it will become an annual. If it's not commercially successful, then of course it'll be the only one. I have no other anthology projects in mind right now because I have so much to finish in terms of novels.
Yeah, listen, this is probably, I'm probably using up too much of your time. Imagine your guest is going to be back pretty soon. Is there anything else? I guess we've got enough material for about a probably a week's worth. The show is only five minutes per day. It's on every day for five minutes.
So we sort of chop an interview up into a five minute segment. So we've got enough here for a whole week's worth. But is there anything else that you, any area you'd like to talk about briefly before the taper ends out?
I wish I could say something exceedingly wise, but I really can't think of anything on my own right now.
Okay, that's fine. I'm very, I'm very satisfied with what we've got. And listen, as I said, I'm setting up a fantasy class for our spring semester out here. And we might very well teach Tamoy Gozen. If we did that, and we contacted you, would it be possible for you to, sometimes what we do when we teach science fiction or fantasy is have an author, we just call it the author and we have a speaker for an arrangement here. And the students can just ask questions of the author about the book. Would you be amenable to that?
Sure. That would be exciting.
Okay, then we can get in touch with you if that works out. And listen up. We have about, oh, maybe six or eight weeks lag time before these shows get on the air at least. So when we edit them, and when they're done, we will send you copies, obviously.
Okay, that would be nice.
And I appreciate your time very much. And I do admire your work. I hope you keep coming out with it.
Okay. I hope that you've used one of my books. I hope you use the Golden 99.
Instead of Tamoy?
Yeah.
But that would mean they have to read Tamoy first to get the background. Maybe they wouldn't have time to do all that, maybe.
If you feel that's true, I think they will stand alone.
Or to be read backwards. I don't think they're dependent on each other.
You might be right. Okay, we could maybe Xerox that first part though, where you explained about Naipon. That was pretty clear in Tamoy, but it wasn't so clear in Naginata.
I had to fight with my editor to leave it off. My editor wanted to reprint that little introduction. I disagree, but you obviously would have agreed with her.
I'm speaking from a point of view of some uncultured freshman. They may not catch enough of it.
If you use these ideas in my books, I will be extremely flattered. I just happen to be a little more fond of the second one. I think it has fewer clumsy passages.
Okay, I'll keep that in mind. Listen, we thank you very much for your time and we will send you those tapes when they're done, and then perhaps we'd be in touch with you next semester to see if you could talk to the class.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.